OSDOCS-16155: OCPSTRAT-2482 Advanced Audit Logging Framework GA (#106553)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/spo-logging-enabling-03.adoc

+
[source,terminal]
----
# kubectl -n openshift-security-profiles patch spod spod --type=merge -p '{"spec":{"enableJsonEnricher":true,"verbosity":0,"jsonEnricherOptions":{"auditLogIntervalSeconds":30}}}'
----
+
Wait until all SPOD pods show `Running` before proceeding. By default, audit logs go to your standard output in JSON lines format. You can send them to a file instead.

. Configure the security profiles operator where to store the log file on the node. Update the security-profiles-operator-profile `ConfigMap` with two keys:

* `json-enricher-log-volume-source.json`: Defines the type of volume (e.g., host path, empty directory) where logs will be stored. This must be a JSON string representing a `corev1.VolumeSource` object.
* `json-enricher-log-volume-mount-path`: Specifies the directory path where the log file will be generated.
+
Here's an example which sets up a host path volume at `/tmp/logs`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
cat patch-volume-source.json
{
  "data": {
    "json-enricher-log-volume-mount-path": "/tmp/logs",
    "json-enricher-log-volume-source.json": "{\"hostPath\": {\"path\": \"/tmp/logs\",\"type\": \"DirectoryOrCreate\"}}"
  }
}

> ----

Reviewer: similar comment regarding being objective.

. Use the `kubectl apply` command to apply this `SeccompProfile` profile to your cluster:
+
[source,terminal]
----
# kubectl apply -f profile1.yaml
----
+
When using kubectl debug for node debugging, a privileged pod may be created for host file system access, which can introduce differences in behavior based on the container runtime. For the CRI-O runtime, a specific feature is needed to apply a `SeccompProfile` to a privileged container.
+
With CRI-O versions 1.33 and newer, a feature was introduced to allow `SeccompProfiles` for privileged containers. You can apply the `SecompProfile` we created to the CRI-O configuration. The key is to configure the CRI-O runtime to use the profile by passing an additional flag.
+
To do this, you must add the flag –privileged-seccomp-profile to the CRI-O runtime configuration. This step ensures that even privileged debugging pods are subject to the `SeccompProfile` logging, maintaining complete audit coverage.
+

> You must bind the profile to a namespace in order to apply it to a workload. Create a file which will automatically apply the profile to new pods in the default namespace.

Reviewer: lot of concepts that can be moved to short desc if makes sense or as a callout.

> . In this example, create a file named `image_sec_comp.yaml`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a file named `image_sec_comp.yaml`:
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: security-profiles-operator.x-k8s.io/v1alpha1
kind: ProfileBinding
metadata:
  namespace: default
  name: all-pod-binding
spec:
  profileRef:
    kind: SeccompProfile
    name: profile1
  image: "*"
----
+
. Apply the binding and label the namespace to activate it:
+
[source,terminal]
----
# kubectl apply -f image_sec_comp.yaml
# kubectl label ns default spo.x-k8s.io/enable-binding=true
----
+
. Now create a pod using the profile:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
  labels:
    app: my-app
spec:
  securityContext:
    SeccompProfile:
      type: Localhost
      localhostProfile: operator/profile1.json
  containers:
    - name: nginx
      image: quay.io/security-profiles-operator/test-nginx:1.19.1
----

* type: `Localhost` means you're using a profile you've defined in the cluster.

* localhostProfile: `operator/profile1.json` tells the pod to use the profile1 you created. The `operator/` part indicates where the Security Profiles Operator stores these profiles.

> . Apply the pod definition. This will create the pod using `kubectl apply`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Apply the pod definition to create the pod by running the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
# kubectl apply -f my-pod.yaml
----
+
. Exec/rsh into the pod and run a command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
# kubectl exec -it my-nginx-pod -- /bin/sh
----
+
[source,terminal]
----
# touch /tmp/audittest/demo-file
----
+

> . There are two ways to monitor the advanced audit logs generated by the json-enricher container:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Monitor the advanced audit logs generated by the json-enricher container:
```

> * To monitor the advanced audit log tail:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** To monitor the advanced audit log tail:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
# kubectl -n openshift-security-profiles logs --since=1m --selector name=spod -c json-enricher --max-log-requests 6 -f
----
+
* To monitor the advanced audit log file:
+
The audit log file specified in the `auditLogPath` is written to the node's file system where the pod is running. To monitor or inspect the audit logs, you must access the node directly and check the file at the specified path such as `/tmp/logs/audit1.log`.
+

> To monitor or inspect the audit logs, you need to identify the node on which the pod is scheduled:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** To monitor or inspect the audit logs, you need to identify the node on which the pod is scheduled:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
# kubectl get pod my-pod -o wide
----
+
. SSH to a node and view the audit log:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ sudo ssh core@<node-name>
$ cat /tmp/logs/audit1.log
----
+

> Example output

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example output
```
